# 2ADrawBot
Arduino code for the 2.5 axis draw bot I've been working on recently. Takes commands over serial to run. "SerialCommander" processing sketch runs command files generated by https://github.com/dankelley2/PlotterGen


**To avoid too many string -> floating point conversions on the arduino, all numerical arguments (with the exception of the "SPEED" Command) should be "distance in mm * 100". This allows you to use up to 1/100th of a mm for precision, while keeping the code clean and free of decimal places or scientific notation**

## Valid Commands are in the following format:


`COMMAND {newline}`

*or*
  
`COMMAND X_NUMBER Y_NUMBER {newline}`

## Commands:

* **MA** : Move Absolute. Moves to an absolute position.
  * Example:"`MA 11053 5075`" Moves to the absolute position (110.53mm, 50.75mm)
  
* **MR** : Move Relative. Moves to a position relative to the current position.
  * Example:"`MR 1000 -2500`" Moves the relative position 10.00mm on the x axis and -25.00mm on the y axis
  
* **STEPLEN** : Sets the number of steps per MM on the X and Y axis
  * Example:"`STEPLEN 2325 6451`" Sets steps per MM on X axis to 23.25, and steps per MM on Y axis to 64.51. If more precision is needed, edit the defaults in the arduino sketch file
  
* **SPEED** : Sets the maximum speed in steps per second. **This is the only command that takes areguments as integers.**
  * Example:"`SPEED 600 400`" Sets speed on X axis to max 600 steps per second, and speed on Y axis to max 400 steps per second.
  
* **LIFT** : Activate Servo to Lift pen. Not yet implemented.
  * Example:"`LIFT`"
  
* **LIMITS** : Set x and y limits (dimensions) of draw area defaults are 200mm X by 100mm Y
  * Example:"`LIMITS 20000 10000`" Sets the size of the draw area and limits maximum travel to 200mm X by 100mm Y
  
* **HOME** : Moves the X axis in a positive direction (right) until hitting an endstop (PIN_INPUT3), then moves Y in a negative direction until hitting an endstop (PIN_INPUT4), then moves back to the coordinates (0,0).
  * Example:"`HOME`"
  
* **Z** : Zero; Sets the current coordinates as (0,0)
  * Example:"`Z`"
  
* **POS** : Get current position in MM and print them via serial
  * Example:"`POS`"
  
* **ON** : Turns on outputs to stepper motors (Note: this is done automatically for MA and MR commands)
  * Example:"`ON`"
  
* **OFF** : Turns off outputs to stepper motors (Note: this is done automatically for MA and MR commands)
  * Example:"`OFF`"


## Example Code:


```LIMITS 20000 10000  
SPEED 600 400  
HOME  
MR 1000 1000  
MA 2000 1000  
MA 2000 2000  
MA 1000 2000  
MA 1000 1000  
MA 0 0  
```

1. Limits draw area to 200mmX by 100mmY
2. Sets max speed to 600 steps per second X and 400 steps per second Y
3. Home carriage until endstops are hit, then go to (0,0)
4. Move Right (X+) 10mm, and Down (Y+) 10mm
5. Lines 5 through 8 draw a 1cm Square
* Last line moves back to (0,0), motors will be turned off automatically.
